Document Submariner High Availability (#263)
submariner-io/submariner-website: src/content/architecture/gateway-engine/_index.en.md

The Gateway Engine component is deployed in each participating cluster and
is responsible for establishing secure tunnels to other clusters.

The Gateway Engine has a pluggable architecture for the cable engine component
that maintains the tunnels. The following implementations are available:

* an IPsec implementation using [strongSwan](https://www.strongswan.org/) (via the
  [goStrongswanVici](https://github.com/bronze1man/goStrongswanVici) library);
  this is currently the default;
* an IPsec implementation using [Libreswan](https://libreswan.org/);
* an implementation for [WireGuard](https://www.wireguard.com/).

Instances of the Gateway Engine run on specifically designated nodes in a
cluster of which there may be more than one for fault tolerance. Submariner

> supports High Availability active/passive for the Gateway Engine component,

Author: Done

which means that there is only one active Gateway Engine instance at a time
in a cluster. They perform a leader election process to determine the active
instance and the others await in standby mode ready to take over should the
active instance fail.

{{% notice info %}}
The Gateway Engine is deployed as a DaemonSet that is configured to only run
on nodes labelled with "submariner.io/gateway=true".
{{% /notice %}}

The active Gateway Engine communicates with the central Broker to advertise
its `Endpoint` and `Cluster` resources to the other clusters connected to the
Broker, also ensuring that it is the sole `Endpoint` for its cluster. The

> Route Agent Pods running on the cluster learn about the local `Endpoint`,
> and will create a VxLAN tunnel along with routing rules that point to the active
> Gateway node for cross-cluster communication. The active Gateway Engine

Reviewer: Perhaps we don't need as much detail here re: Route Agent and link to that section? 

```suggestion
[Route Agent](../route-agent/) Pods running in the cluster learn about the local `Endpoint` and setup the necessary infrastructure to route cross-cluster traffic from all nodes to the active Gateway Engine node. The active Gateway Engine
```

is responsible for establishing secure tunnels to other clusters.

Instances of the Gateway Engine run on specifically designated nodes in a

> cluster of which there may be more than one for fault tolerance. Submariner
> supports High Availability (Active/Passive) for the Gateway Engine component.
> There is only one active Gateway Engine instance at a time in a cluster. They

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cluster of which there may be more than one for fault tolerance. Submariner
supports active/passive High Availability for the Gateway Engine component,
which means that there is only one active Gateway Engine instance at a time in a cluster. They
```

Author: Done

which traffic can be routed.

![Figure 1 - High Availability in stable cluster](/images/high-availability/HA_Cluster1.png)
<!-- Image Source: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/180CtHZnr9PP5Rh98VEmkQz3ovc5AGXG9wosoHMLhgaY/edit -->

#### Gateway Failover

If the active Gateway Engine fails, another Gateway Engine on one of the
other designated nodes will gain leadership and perform reconciliation to
advertise its `Endpoint` and to ensure that it is the sole `Endpoint`. The
remote clusters will learn of the new `Endpoint` via the Broker and establish
a new tunnel. Similarly, the Route Agent Pods running in the local cluster
automatically update the route tables on each node to point to the new active
Gateway Node in the cluster.

![Figure 2 - Gateway Failover Scenario](/images/high-availability/HA_Cluster2.png)
<!-- Image Source: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/180CtHZnr9PP5Rh98VEmkQz3ovc5AGXG9wosoHMLhgaY/edit -->

The impact on datapath for various scenarios in a KIND setup are captured in the
following [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JsXsyRDDXkp6t55Gm-NP5EggWTyYi2yo27pyuDYwlpc/edit#gid=0).

> The Gateway Engine has a pluggable architecture for the cable engine component

Author: Done
